The Big Bang Theory is an American television sitcom 
created by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, both of whom 
served as executive producers on the series, along with 
Steven Molaro. All three also served as head writers. It 
premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007, and concluded on 
May 16, 2019, having broadcast 279 episodes over 12 
seasons.[3]
The show originally centered on five characters living 
in Pasadena, California: Leonard Hofstadter (Johnny 
Galecki) and Sheldon Cooper (Jim Parsons), both 
physicists at Caltech, who share an apartment; Penny 
(Kaley Cuoco), a waitress and aspiring actress who lives 
across the hall; and Leonard and Sheldon's similarly 
geeky and socially awkward friends and co-workers, 
aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz (Simon Helberg) and 
astrophysicist Raj Koothrappali (Kunal Nayyar).[4][5] 
Over time, supporting characters were promoted to 
starring roles, including neuroscientist Amy Farrah 
Fowler (Mayim Bialik), microbiologist Bernadette 
Rostenkowski (Melissa Rauch), and comic book store owner 
Stuart Bloom (Kevin Sussman).
The show was filmed in front of a live audience, and 
produced by Warner Bros. Television and Chuck Lorre 
Productions. It received mixed reviews throughout its 
first season, but reception was more favorable in the 
second and third seasons. Despite early mixed reviews, 
seven seasons were ranked within the top ten of the 
final season ratings, and it ultimately reached the no. 
1 spot in its eleventh season. It was nominated for the 
Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series from 2011 to 
2014 and won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor 
in a Comedy Series four times for Parsons. In total, it 
won seven Emmy Awards from 46 nominations. Parsons also 
won the Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Television 
Comedy Series in 2011. In 2017, the series spawned a 
prequel series, Young Sheldon, based on Parsons' 
character Sheldon Cooper; it also airs on CBS. 